h1. Meme to Web

This is the Repast/Java version of the Meme-To-Web model. A NetLogo version is also available from the author.
MtW is an agent based model developed by LABSS to explore the effects of internet filtering technologies on information diversity.

h2. Rationale

The internet is now the main repository of human knowledge, both past and contemporary, and the new cultural artifacts that humanity produces are nearly entirely 'stored' and circulated via the Net. In such new context the gatekeeping function, historically performed by 'expert' agencies, is now increasingly delegated to to automated algorithms operating on the 'wisdom of crowds' principle. Google's PageRank, the voting mechanisms operating on websites such as Reddit, Digg, the "sharing" mechanisms operating on facebook, twitter and similar social networks act as collective filters on knowledge, where the community of users decides in a participatory, implicit and emergent fashion on the quality and relevance of every single piece of content introduced in the net.
What is the effect of such world-changing shift of paradigm on the diversity of information available to mankind through the Internet? Are the filtering mechanisms that progressively appeared in the history of the Internet increasing or inhibiting diversity?

h2. Implementation

The model implements a society of agents endowed with a memetic patrimonio and engaged in the production and consumption of cultural artifacts. The cultural artifacts are no more than memetic aggregations, an abstraction of artwork, writing, poetry, music stemming from the memetic baggage of the creator.

At each step: 

# a fraction of the population (the "publishers") has the chance of publishing an artifact and linking it with other artifacts 
# all the agents "consume" some of the 'most relevant' artifacts as filtered by the content filtering mechanisms implemented [None; PageRank; Reddit-like; Pure popularity; and a mix of the above.] and retain a subset of the memes endowed in the artifacts.

The retaining of the memes happens on a slightly cognitive fashion: some memes are memorized, the most reiterated memes of them are then retained in a belief base containing 'accepted' memes. Both the memorization and the acceptance take place under a homophily constraint: the more memes  the agent's mind and the artifact being read have in common, the more likely the agent will retain other memes in the artifact.
